SMARTNESS has the ambition to go beyond the state-of-the-art networked system disciplines, clustered into five areas of Scientific and Technological Advancements (STA), namely, (i) Customized Edge Computing, (ii) Fluid Control & Data Planes, (iii) Cognitive Architectures, (iv) Trustworthiness - Security, Privacy, Safety, Ethics, and (v) Sustainability. Each STA includes specific, ambitious objectives within a common theme, acting as building blocks upon which research strands (RS) are defined and executed. RS are the chosen strategy to organize research and engineering efforts. Each RS encompasses a group of well-defined timely STA research objectives to realize exemplar use case applications. SMARTNESS will start and be supported by currently deployed technologies and infrastructures that will evolve throughout the RS execution. The SMARTNESS view on growing the technology readiness levels is based on a deep study of already existing solutions, focusing on the technical gaps and challenges to harden the initial requirements of each RS, and validate the final approach by deep experimentation with running prototypes and experimental evaluation embodied in selected pilots. Each RS has a lifecycle, where new RS are built considering outputs from previously ended RS and inputs from the updated mid- and long-term visions, external feedback from project reviewers and the scientific community, guidance from the international advisory board (IAB), among other forces expected to contribute to the most appropriate steering of active RS and the definition of new ones. The RS identified for the initial years of SMARTNESS are as follows: (1) NEWTON: iN Edge netWork indusTrial automatioN, (2) DEMIST: Distributed Edge Computing Swarm Intelligence, (3) C3LA: Cognitive Closed Control Loops Architecture for Edge IoV Services, (4) ADVENTURE: Adaptive and Secure Network Applications over the Industrial Internet, and (5) DisCoNet: Distributed Computer Networking.
