---
layout: post
title: "FAPESP Financing"
---

Four Unicamp projects were approved in the financing package announced by Fapesp (Fundação de Amparo à Pesquisa do Estado de São Paulo) this Wednesday (25th). The University will house an Engineering Research Center (CPE) in intelligent networks and services and three new Science and Development Centers (CCDs), in the areas of health, urban public policies and energy transition. The investment package will amount to R$ 990 million. The projects approved by Fapesp, which completes 70 years, provide for the creation of three new Engineering Research Centers and 15 new Science and Development Centers, as well as public notices to support the research infrastructure. The calls are intended for the acquisition of multi-user equipment for scientific, technological and innovation use and for information depository centers and documentary collections.

The CPEs are a research funding model that integrates the business and academic sectors in an arrangement that, according to FAPESP's scientific director Luiz Eugênio Mello, has proved to be quite efficient. According to him, the state of New York (USA), which adopts the model, has 15 such centers. With the announcement, Fapesp now supports 23 CPEs.

The centers will mobilize more than R$ 1.5 billion in research activities. “With this, the R$ 325 million allocated by Fapesp will practically be multiplied by five”, highlighted Mello. The CPE in Intelligent Networks and Services 2030 (Smartness) will be installed at Unicamp in a partnership with Ericsson. “Smartness 2030 is a unique initiative”, stated Unicamp researcher Christian Rothenberg, responsible for the CPE. “The challenges for the Center are to design and operate the telecommunications networks on the horizon of 2030 and, at the same time, to train the necessary human resources for this”, he added.

According to Ericsson researcher Maria Valéria Marquezin, the partnership will allow research in the areas of edge computing. It performs the processing, analysis and storage of data closer to the place where it is generated, in order to obtain fast, near real-time analysis and responses, network programmability, cognitive architecture, security and sustainability.

In addition to researchers from Unicamp and the company, the program was supported by 50 associated researchers from various Brazilian institutions. The planned investment is R$ 56 million. The other two CPEs announced by Fapesp are a partnership between the pharmaceutical company GSK and the Instituto Israelita de Ensino e Pesquisa Albert Einstein, in the area of ​​immuno-oncology, and an agreement between Embraer and the Instituto Tecnológico de Aeronáutica (ITA) in the area of aerial mobility.